What was it that you did for entertainment and
recreation? Well, most of our recreation and
entertainment was self-made out there on the
drill ground around where we'd play ball, you
know. And each company would have a team, you know,
we'd go out there and we'd play. And actually, DX
Bible got some of his football players off of
those. He'd go out there watching. And I know old
Harry Pinson, he's a past mate of mine. He was just
out there playing from D Company and old D actually
watched him and he asked Harry to come down and suit
up and he made a good football player down there.
I'd say just company games and things like that.
Now we had to go to Garner Hall on Sunday mornings to
the chapel. They cut that out sometime later but
except when we were seniors we could We didn't have
to go when we were seniors, but some of us would
because they had real good speakers in those days.
And of course, some of the boys would take, would
put under the shirt some kind of magazine and be
reading during the speech, stuff like that. But we
had to go. Had to go to the chapel every Sunday
morning. And they'd have, I remember the
Knickerbockers from Dallas, They were great
preachers, and one of the boys was
quarterback on one of the excellent football
teams here, Arthur Knickerbocker. Well, those
Knickerbockers, every year, one or two of them
would come down and give a talk there, and then
different ones, but they were excellent
speakers, and I enjoyed it very much. And Dr. Zell
also, We didn't have any churches around here
then.
Had a YMCA. But Dr. Bezell held a class, a Bible
class, every Sunday morning for seniors if they
wanted to come. Didn't have to. And then finally
they got some guys like Mr. Cofer, who learned
English, And they would hold a Sunsuit class in
these different buildings around like over there
in the EE building and places where they have
chapel. And that's about, that's the way, that's
about our religious, went on that way until about
1920. And then some of the churches started
bringing preachers down here. I know Reverend
Brown came here in 1920. He died here a few years ago
and he was the first pastor of the Baptist Church
here on the campus. And then the Methodists and
others get started until they finally build quite
a group of churches here on campus, I think, enough
to satisfy all the needs.
Did you ever have visiting lecturers from off
campus come out, come in for afternoon or evening
lectures like today Of course there's something
going on several times a week of that nature. Yeah.
We didn't have much of that. Most of our speakers
were on Sunday morning chapel services and we'd
have our classes, our subject matter classes
would sometimes bring in outside speakers to give
a lecture.
Now, you asked what we did off the hours. On Sunday
was a long day, mostly, and a room they and I, we were
both, we roomed together here three years. And
we'd go around to the different barns. We were
taking animal science. And we had an iceberg named
Garrigan charge the horses. He was from Ireland,
too. That barn out there named Garrigan Stables
had horses. And we'd visit with Mr. Garrigan and
then this fellow named Sam's. He was a Scotchman.
He had charge of cattle. And we'd visit with all
these barns around and went way out to F&B station
where they had a lot of feedlots out there then
feeding cattle. And we'd go out there and look over
the cattle and stuff like that. Of course that is
natural for us to do that because we were raised
that way. with one horses and cattle and stuff like
that, and sheep, but there
wasn't much else to do unless you sat on the bench
under these trees and have a bull session, you see.
A lot of that going on.
I know we had an old boy named Strange, they called
him Tanlake because in our English, in our senior
English class up there in public speaking, This
teacher would let you pick any subject you wanted
to. An old train picked a subject called Tandilac,
that tonic, Tandilac tonic, you know. And he gave
it in the form of, like these, you see these
advertisements. And about you couldn't sleep,
you was nervous, and all that stuff. And he'd say,
I've taken one bottle of Tandilac, anybody can
sleep with you, and all that stuff. He made a good
one and so they called him Tanak for the rest
of it. So with not much to do you have to think up
things like that. We were pretty well happy
because the world itself was slower in those days
than it is now. Communications and everything
else was slower and the world was bigger. It's
getting to be a small world now. So we, I guess we
were, whatever we did was kind of in line with the
period we were in. Many people make any use of the
library for... Well, we didn't have much of a
library in those days. That was one of our
omissions down here. In fact, when I was a fish, the
library was in one corner of the academic
building. The library before that burned. And so
we didn't have much of a library and each
department tried to have its own in addition to
that, you know, of the certain of the journals and
things that were necessary to really carry on the
scholarship program. And then the
Experimentation Library had a library, the
Extension Service had one, but Yes, on Sunday
afternoons that library also tried to take the
weekly papers of these small towns. And the Tuley
Herald came in here every, was over here on Sunday.
And so we'd go over there and we'd scan the Tuley
Herald, you know, those kids from Tuley, you know.
And the other kids the same way. But we wanted to get
the hometown papers, you know. But I, The library
started growing by the time we were seniors, it had
grown quite a bit. And of course now I think it's a
real first-class library.
Did you play any games of any sort in addition to the
athletic games? I mean checkers, chess,
dominoes? Yeah, you'd see some of that in the room.
But there was no place to do that other than in your
own dormitory room? Well, Wyham City. Okay. Did
you have any favorite instructors? Well, you
know, I've thought about that a whole lot since I
got here, and they talk about what fine faculty
they've got now, which they have. But I thought we
had as good a faculty then, or the period we were in,
as they've got now. Now, we had some outstanding
people. You take a dean per year. He was from
Virginia and he could have gone anywhere, I guess.
He was a mathematician and he had somebody that was
the author of a book that said over there on
trigonometry, I believe. But, Dean Breyer, he was
one of my favorites and he taught me one lesson
that's been very helpful to me. When we were
seniors, we had to take courses in sociology. And
the first day of class, this teacher went over what
he was going to have, and another boy on the staff
decided that being an animal hunter, we'd really
like to substitute another course for that if we
could. So we matched, and I had to go see a dean per
year. And I didn't know at that time that the
teacher was the brother-in-law of old Dean. If I
had, I'd have been scared to death to go in there.
But I went in there. And so Dean, he was just one of
those Virginia gentlemen. And make you feel at
home, you know, and sit down there and wonder what
he'd do for you. And I told him about the way Bap and I
would like to substitute a course over here in
Admiral Hudnery for a course we'd take into
sociology. And so he said, put it in right. that
Dean Puryear would never give you an answer unless
you wrote him a letter. And then he had that on file.
So I went back and had to write a letter. And when I
wrote the letter to him, then he answered it and
gave us permission to make that change. But then,
if anything came up about that subject later, he
had a file on his letter. Now that was real good. It
sure hit me one time, because when I was a senior, I
came back the next year to take graduate work. And
Christmas, they had lost an instructor out here in
Alamo-Hudnery, so they needed somebody to take
over some courses in 107. And they asked me if I'd do
that. Said I could still, I was taking three
subjects, one master's. They said, you can drop
one subject and take the other two. And the two I
kept, one of them was genetics and one was
veterinary physiology. And so when that term was
over then, just about a month before the term was
over, I was offered a job at the Santa Fe Railroad as
Assistant General Ag Cuts Agent. And so I asked
some of my instructors about it, and they said,
well, I said, yeah, go ahead and take that. Add that
to your experience. You can come back and get that
master's any time. You take your exam on the
physiology and genetics and have that behind you
and all you need is just the subject and the thesis.
So I took it and took those exams and all. So when I
came back then, February the 1st, the
experimentation offered me a job over here as the
charge of swine investigations. And I left the
railroad and came back here February the 1st,
1925. And then I picked, that's when I left. I left
on February the 1st. Well, I mean, at the end of that
year, I left in June. So I picked up that, my course
right at the beginning of that term, just like I
left it, you know. And so they told me, they said,
now you better get, the committee told me, you
better stay up on your, genetics and physiology,
you're going to have to take that exam, too, when
you take it. Well, I'd already taken the exam, see?
And before I did, I went up and I wrote Dean Perrier a
letter and asked him would I have to take them again
if I came back, and he wrote me a letter and told me I
wouldn't. So then, I went up there and told Dean
Perrier that this committee said that I had to take
these exams on genetics and physiology when I
finished my term out. I said, no, I wrote you a
letter two years ago. And that showed you how
important that was. Yeah, I had some favorite
instructors, but I don't believe I had a bad one in
the bunch. I just think we had some real good
professors. Mr. Cofer was one of my favorites. He
was an English professor. Then became a colleague
of yours, I guess, for a long while. Yeah, he was a
dandy.
Well, Mr. Brayton. Mr. Brayton taught chemistry,
freshman chemistry. At the fire. Brayton Field
was named for him. And he was dandy. He was really
good. But I just don't believe I had a story
instructor. Did you have any courses under Dr.
Francis? Yeah. Now, he was a good one. Did you ever
hear the story about that old boy cheering in the
back of one of his classes? I'm not sure that I have.
Well, have you ever been in that Francis
amphitheater where they have classes? Suits go up
that way, you know. Yeah, I've been in there. Well,
that's where the class was, and this old boy was
sitting back up there, and he didn't think Dr.
Francis would see him, hear him. Dr. Francis could
hardly hear anyway, but he could hear what he
wanted to. And this old boy, he was very big on the
floor, and he didn't think Dr. Francis would see
him. So one day, Dr. Francis came to the class, and
he saw an old boy sitting up there, so he went back,
got him a piece of rope and tied it to an old wash tub
and dragged it down the hall, and acoustics in that
building was terrible then. You could hear it all
over the building. Dragged it down the hall,
dragged it up the steps, up the other wall, sat down
by the side of him. Says, fill her full, Rube.
Oh, that Dr. Francis, he was something. I don't
know how A&M kept those high-powered guys like
that because that was back in the mud. We didn't
have any sidewalks, didn't have anything. And
they could have gone anywhere. Like Breyer and
Francis and Dr. Ball over in the botany. We just had
a lot of those high-powered guys, I thought. And
John Burns, who was head of the Ambulance Hub
Department, he finished here in 1904. And he's one
of the Charter of Memories that organized the
American Society of Animal Production. But Mr.
Burns was an even outstanding man. He was a
full-blood Scotsman. That's a good Scotch name,
you know. Yeah, when I was in Lubbock, I talked with
his younger brother. You did? D. Burns. Well, I'll
declare it. Yeah, I do D. Well. He was his, let's
see, he was here He was ahead of me. Yeah,
he's retired from the Guthrie, Pitchfork branch
in Guthrie.
We talked a little bit about Dr. Brazell a few
minutes ago. What were the general attitudes of
the students towards Dr. Brazell as president?
Well,
of course, to speak myself, it couldn't have been
any better, but there were a few students long,
well, about a year after I graduated, long in
there, in the cavalry round over there. The
cavalry had some pretty rough guy in there at that
time. They
thought Dr. DeSalle was stupid on them sometimes.
He'd come over to his office at night and he'd see a
light burning up there and a little noise up there.
Instead of letting the military take care of that,
he took it on himself, which he shouldn't have
done. But he did and they didn't like that and they
got with it. They'd throw water on him when he'd
come back home from go past that Leggett Hall.
Those upside out there had some banisters or
something around there, not there now. And they'd
get out there and they'd throw out water on them
when they'd come by there. He left here in 25, went
to the University of Oklahoma, and just made an
outstanding success there like he did here. And
they built a building up there. I think it may be the
library. I forget. They built some building up
there named after him. But I just thought he was an
outstanding president. He did a lot for A&M. And he
came in 14, left 25.
But
some of them, he, Dr. Lavelle, Some of them
boyettes down here didn't like him and gave him a
lot of trouble. One reason why I ask is because I
always had the impression from, you know, when I
first came here that Dr. Brazell was one of the
leading lights as an administrator for A&M for
many years. And since that time, though, a man who
had been here as a student in the mid-20s brought in
a, I guess you'd call it an underground student
newspaper from, I believe, 1924 called The Long
Bat. And there was an editorial in there that
seemed to indicate that there was some
dissatisfaction. And I think it was, well, one of
the issues that came scrapped up many, many times
since then is the matter of censorship or
inappropriate you know, not having the privilege
to say what you really think, and they made the
comment that if you don't think this is true, this
was in an editorial, if you don't think this is true
that you can't say what you think, well, get up in
the middle of the academic building and say what
you think, and then count how long it is until the
next train comes through, and that's how long you
had to stay here. Well, of course, they criticized
Jesus Christ, you know, and And you can ask a guy
like E. McQuillan. He was a 20-man. He was under
Brazil. I'll bet you he would give them a real A-1
rating. Well, almost everybody I have talked to
has done so, and this makes his editorial in his
underground newspaper even more puzzling. Yeah.
Well, I don't know why anyone would do that. Dr.
Bell, he was... You remember we were, in those
periods, discipline was number one. You had to
have, you couldn't get by stuff like you do now,
you know. The old timers believed in discipline
and law and order and all that kind of stuff. And Dr.
Zell was in that period and, you know, before Dr.
Zell came here, There'd been guys canned out of
here smoking cigarettes on the campus. You
couldn't even smoke a cigarette. And up at Baylor,
Pat Depp and that bunch of guys, well, they'd can
you out of Baylor right now if you were smoking up
there in those days. But when Dr. Bell
had been here after the war, all that changed a
little bit because during the war you know
everybody's
and all the company and all had the cigarettes and
stuff like that. I wondered you know after my
initial reaction to this editorial and the
comments I had had about Dr. Brazell since then, I
wondered whether perhaps that editorial was
aimed at the commandant instead of... It could
have been at the commandant, yeah. It wasn't Ike
Ashburn, though. It was that fellow Muller before
him. He was pretty hard. Muller was commandant
when you were here as a student? Yes, Fish, yeah.
And was he followed by Ashburn? Yeah. during your
sophomore year. Yeah, the aspirin. The aspirin
was real good. He stayed on for all of the... See,
aspirin came back from the war, from the major. And
he's the one who got that cigarette thing changed,
I think. And a few things changed like that. But he
was a lovable fellow, that fellow aspirin was. He
was later, I think... on Dr. Walton's staff. Dr.
Walton was made president following Brazell. I
believe, I know he, Ashburn served in a number of
capacities as an information officer and some
things of that nature. Yeah. So, but he was very
highly regarded then. Oh yeah, yeah, he was a
danger. He was out of the military though. Yes,
that's right. He was out of the military. Dr.
Brazell was Dr.
Rozelle was really highly regarded by his staff
here. And I was, when
I came back from my masters, a guy named Johnston
and Hooten Williams. Hooten Williams was one of
the good, best basketball players here.
Williamson Johnson were chemistry majors, and I
was animal science. We came back here to work on our
matches, and they put us over there in Austin Hall,
which is not here anymore. That is one of the old
dormitories. It wasn't much of a dormitory. They
had to carry wood. So they put us in there, and we
didn't want to be there. We wanted to be in Alpha
Hall. Of course, it's gone now, too. But it's
bigger, and the rooms are bigger, and we thought it
would be better for us. We could study better. So we
went to Dr. Brazell, and these other two boys were
at a class, and they asked me to go. And I went up to
see Dr. Brazell, and when I told him the problem, he
just got up out of his chair and said, let's go down
to the commandant's office. That's what I came
for. And there was some military men in there at the
same time. We went in, and when Dr. Brazell came in,
everybody came to his feet. They respected Dr.
Zell and treated him real royal. And Dr. Zell got
that chance. He just asked, he didn't, he wasn't
adamant about it. He just says, we have three
students, Colonel Ashburn, call him Colonel, or
yeah, I believe it, that would like to room over in
Alfa Hall and say, you think you could arrange
that? He says, here we go. Oh yeah, he says, we can do
this. That's all there was to it. But I was
impressed the way they came to their feet when he
entered the door. I believe I've been told that
Alpha and Beta were places where non-military
students lived. Yes, they did, and then some
graduate students. Were there graduate students
primarily in Austin Hall, too? Well, I don't know.
We thought it was used at that time for waiters over
in MS Hall, some of them. Speezer was, he was
Spanish or some kind of a thing. I knew Speezer. But
I think he got some of his boys out of Puerto Rico and
I don't know where else. But I think they, it was
over there. But Alpha was a pretty nice hall and
Beta too. Just more like home, like you lived at
home, you know. As a graduate student, did you have
to wear a uniform? No. No, you wore civilian
clothing. Yeah, yeah. But even at that point, did
all the undergraduates have to wear uniforms? In
the cadet corps, yeah. And that was, we thought
that was the place to be then. We really, I think we
enjoyed it. We know that from time to time a number
of the students, in a sense, worked their way
through school. Did you ever have a job when you
were in school? I wish I had had. My observation of
the boys who worked the way through school made
acquaintance with more professors and more
administrators and I think they have an
advantage. Actually, the kid who worked his way
through school. Well, our President Ford worked
his way through school. But I did, my dad
just furnished me the money to come down here. Now,
for my master's though, after I was 21, I wouldn't
take any more money from my dad. And so I borrowed
some money and then I got a scholarship down here.
And for my master's,
we...
uh didn't have to wear a uniform but uh I didn't I
didn't have to work away but they did borrow money
to go to school and
and they talk about our interest now well this is uh
in the fall of 22 and I had to pay 10 interest on that
money That was from a bank? Yeah. But then, but the
second semester of that graduate year, while you
were doing some teaching, so you had an income.
Yes, yeah, I sure did. Part-time. And I'm
presuming that helped out. Yeah, it did. It helped
me pay that $300 off my bar. Scholarship was just
$200. Of course, going to school then wasn't like
it is now. The scholarship was when you were
working on your master's? Yeah.
We know that at various times, on different
occasions, there were girls who did attend
classes. Did you ever have any in your classes? No.
About the only girls that went to A&M then were the
daughters of the faculty. I think Dr. Zell's
daughter went to school here a little while, and
maybe Dr. Fraps. Dr. Fraps was state chemist over
here. He had a daughter I think went to school here.
and
I don't know where Dr. Walden's, either went to
school here or not, but there were a few girls like
that, very few girls went to school here. No
thanks. Okay. I
did a little checking in your 22, Longhorn. Did
you? You noted that you were on the international
stock judging team. Yes. I presume that was on your
senior year? Yes. How did you become a member of
that? By trying out for our, we had to, we'd take
this livestock over here, and different barns,
and they had hogs, beef cattle, horses, and sheep.
And you'd have classes to place and give reasons
on. Mr. Stangle, who was later dean out at Texas
Tech, was our coach. And he'd grade you on your
placings and on your greasings. And it was
competitive. You got on there by competition. So
how many of the students were on the team? Five. And
each member, each one of each... did you
specialize in one type of lifestyle? Everybody
had to do all of them. Now when I was a fish,
we had a freshman lifestyle judging contest at the
end of the freshman year. And I looked out on that, I
was high man of the freshman lifestyle judging
contest and won a medal. And in 1920 I lost that
medal. It was A.M. Walter medal. It was a hexagon
shaped thing and I lost it in 1920. I did no work. In
1940, 20 years later, we were going up to see our
folks and we had a son at that time, nine years old.
We stopped at Leonard's other store in Fort Worth
and bought an iron gun for him to shoot when he went
up there. So in Tuna, we lived on a city block and had
a barn, an orchard and garden, chicken, all that
kind of stuff. So he was out there in the lot looking
for something to put up on the fence to shoot at and
kicked up that metal. 20 years after I lost it.